 psychiatrist.
They’ll ask about the history of your symptoms, particularly if they started when you were a child, and how these symptoms affected you at school.
The assessment will focus on different areas of your life, including:
work and education
family and friends
medical history, including any mental health issues
The specialist may want to contact someone who knows you well, such as a family member or close friend.
If you’re diagnosed with ADHD, the specialist will talk to you about what this means and what will happen next, including what help and support may be available.
Information:
Waiting times for ADHD assessments
Waiting times vary and you may have to wait several months or years to access ADHD specialist services.
You may be able to find a clinic with shorter waiting lists through your GP using the Right to Choose scheme. Read about Right to Choose and your choices in the NHS.
You can ask for an NHS appointment at any clinic, including a private clinic, if it provides ADHD services for the NHS in England.
Find out more about diagnosis pathways for adults on the ADHD UK website.
How to manage ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)
ADHD can be managed in many ways, including lifestyle changes, changes at work, or medicines.
It depends on your symptoms and how they're affecting you. Not everyone needs or wants to take medicine to help manage their ADHD symptoms.
When you get a diagnosis of ADHD, your specialist will discuss ways you can be supported.
Lifestyle
There are things you can do to help yourself.
Make time for physical activities you enjoy, as exercise has many health benefits and can be a good focus for your energy.
Exercise also helps reduce symptoms of anxiety and depression. Anxiety and depression can make your ADHD symptoms worse.
It’s important to get enough sleep. Having a regular bedtime and a quiet dark bedroom can help. Try to avoid screens, caffeine, sugar and alcohol close to bedtime.
Aim for a healthy, balanced diet and regular mealtimes.
You may also find it helpful to talk to friends and family about your ADHD.
Work, college or university
At your workplace or place of study, you can request changes to help you manage your ADHD. These are called “reasonable adjustments”.
Reasonable adjustments may include things like:
having a personalised work space in a quiet area
having written instructions as well as spoken instructions
having help from another person to plan and