 arranging an assessment.
The British Dyslexia Association (BDA) has an individual assessment service for children and adults.
The assessment procedure
Before the assessment takes place, you and your child's school may be sent a questionnaire that asks about your child and related issues, such as:
the general state of their health
how well they perform certain tasks
what you think needs to change
The assessment itself may involve observing your child in their learning environment, talking with key adults involved with your child's learning, and asking your child to take part in a series of tests.
These tests may examine your child's:
reading and writing abilities
language development and vocabulary
logical reasoning
memory
the speed they can process visual and auditory (sound) information
organisational skills
approaches to learning
Read about managing dyslexia for more information about educational interventions that may help.
What happens afterwards
After your child has been assessed, you'll receive a report that outlines their strengths and weaknesses, with recommendations of what could be done to improve areas they're having difficulties with.
Depending on the severity of your child's learning difficulties, it may be possible for their difficulties to be managed through special educational needs support, an action plan drawn up by their school and their parents. Read more about special educational needs support on GOV.UK.
In a small number of cases where a child's difficulties do not improve and progress does not seem to be made, you may want to request your local council do a fuller assessment that covers all aspects of your child's development, called an educational health and care (EHC) assessment.
If the assessment shows your child needs more special education support, they may have an educational plan made for them, known as an education health and care (EHC) plan.
This sets out what your child's educational needs are and the support required to meet those needs in a document that's reviewed formally every year.