ADHD in children and young people
ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) is a condition where the brain works differently to most people. Children and young people with ADHD may have trouble with things like concentrating and sitting still. There are ways to help manage the symptoms of ADHD.
Information:
ADHD in adults
There is separate information about ADHD in adults.

Symptoms of ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)
Symptoms of ADHD usually start before the age of 12. They involve a person’s ability to pay attention to things (being inattentive), having high energy levels (being hyperactive) and their ability to control their impulses (being impulsive).
A child or young person may show signs of being inattentive, such as:
being easily distracted
finding it hard to listen to what people are saying or to follow instructions
forgetting everyday tasks, like brushing their teeth or putting on socks
They may show signs of being hyperactive and impulsive, including:
having high energy levels
fidgeting or tapping their hands and feet
talking noisily
feeling restless, or getting up and moving around when they’re supposed to sit still
finding it hard to wait their turn, or interrupting conversations
Most children and young people with ADHD have symptoms of both the inattentive and hyperactive-impulsive type. Some only show signs of one type.
ADHD is thought to be recognised less often in girls than boys. This may be because girls with ADHD more commonly have inattentive symptoms and these can be harder to recognise.
Information:
Many children are easily distracted, impulsive and have high energy levels, particularly if they’re under the age of 5. This does not mean they have ADHD. It could be a sign of something else, like being tired, anxious or stressed.
Getting help for ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)
If you’re worried that ADHD may be affecting your child, talk to one of their teachers. An older child or teenager may choose to speak to a teacher themselves.
The teacher will usually make a referral to the school’s special educational needs co-ordinator (SENCO).
The SENCO can discuss support in the classroom or with homework, or help with building confidence and friendships.
If you're still worried or you think your child needs additional support, you may want to make an appointment with a GP.
At