 structure your tasks
You can read more about workplace adjustments and other ways to help ADHD on the ADHD UK website.
Medicines
ADHD medicines must be started and monitored by an ADHD specialist.
Medicines that can help with ADHD symptoms include methylphenidate or lisdexamfetamine.
You may need to try more than one medicine to find out what works for you.
A GP may be able to take over prescribing ADHD medicines, but only if there is a “shared care agreement” between the GP and the ADHD specialist. To find out more, talk to your ADHD specialist or GP.
Talking therapies
Talking therapies, such as cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) or mindfulness, may be recommended for adults with ADHD.
Information:
ADHD and driving
You must tell the DVLA if your driving is affected by your ADHD or your ADHD medicine, or both.
Find out more about ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) and driving on GOV.UK
ADHD and mental health
People with ADHD may be more likely to have a mental health issues such as anxiety and depression.
They are also at higher risk of suicide.
If you're feeling like you want to end your life, it's important to tell someone.
Help and support is available right now if you need it. You do not have to struggle with difficult feelings alone.
Find out how to get help for suicidal thoughts. 
What causes ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)
The cause of ADHD is not always known. ADHD may be caused by genetic differences and often runs in families.
There are several other things linked to ADHD, including being born premature (before 37 weeks of pregnancy), having epilepsy, a brain injury and being autistic.
Some people with ADHD call themselves neurodivergent. Neurodiversity describes the range of different ways our brains work.
Help and support for ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)
If you have ADHD, there are ways to help manage your condition in addition to support from your doctor and workplace.
There are ADHD support groups locally and online.
There are also a number of organisations and charities that can offer information and support about ADHD.