 the GP appointment, the doctor will ask about the child or young person’s symptoms and how these affect their life. They may consider other conditions that could cause these symptoms, such as autism, Tourette's or anxiety.
People with ADHD may often have other conditions too, such as depression, anxiety or addictions, or a learning difficulty such as dyslexia.
The GP or SENCO may recommend support groups or training for parents in your area.
Asking for an ADHD assessment
If support at home and at school is not helping your child, you may want to ask for an ADHD assessment. Speak to a GP or SENCO to request a referral for an ADHD assessment.
While waiting for a referral or assessment, the child or young person should continue to get support at home and in school. You can also contact your local council for advice, and to ask if there’s a family hub in your area.
Family hubs support children and young people aged 0 to 19 (and up to 25 for people with special educational needs or a disability).
What happens at an ADHD assessment
The assessment will be with one or more ADHD specialists, such as a paediatrician, or a child and adolescent psychiatrist.
The specialist will talk with you and your child to find out more about any symptoms, and about family life. They’ll also ask about your child’s development, such as how old they were when they learned to do things like walking or reading.
There may be some forms to fill in before the appointment or as part of the assessment.
The ADHD specialist will usually contact a SENCO or teacher, or both, to see how your child is doing at school.
They may also ask your child to do a computer-based test to help assess their symptoms.
If your child is diagnosed with ADHD, the specialist will discuss what this means and what happens next, including what treatment and support may be available.
Information:
Waiting times for ADHD assessments
Waiting times vary and your child may have to wait several months or years for an ADHD assessment.
You may be able to find a clinic with shorter waiting lists through your GP using the Right to Choose scheme. Read about Right to Choose and your choices in the NHS.
You can ask for an NHS appointment at any clinic, including a private clinic, if it provides ADHD services for the NHS in England.
Find out more about diagnosis pathways for children on the ADHD UK website.
How