 to manage ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)
There are different ways to support a child or young person with ADHD, including lifestyle changes, changes at school and at home, or medicines.
It depends on their symptoms, and not every child needs help or support from a health professional.
Talk to a SENCO (special educational needs coordinator), or a school nurse where available, about changes that could help a child or young person.
Finding out more about ADHD can also help parents, children and young people better understand the condition.
If your child or teenager has been referred to an ADHD service, a specialist will be able to give you more information and advice about how to help them.
Lifestyle
There are things you can do to help support a child or young person with their ADHD symptoms.
Do
	 Make time for physical activities they enjoy, as exercise is a good focus for their energy.
	 Encourage them to get regular sleep. The Royal College of Psychiatrists website has advice on dealing with sleep problems.
	 Help them to have a healthy, balanced diet and regular mealtimes.
	 If some foods and drinks seem to affect their symptoms, keep a food and drink diary to see what these are. You can share this information with their school.
Support at school and at home
Discuss with a SENCO what adjustments or support may help at home and school.
This may include:
splitting up tasks, like doing homework or sitting down to eat, into 15 to 20 minute slots with a break in between each slot
giving clear and simple instructions one at a time in a calm voice
writing a to-do list and putting it somewhere easy to see
giving praise when a child or young person does well, or making a reward chart
Medicine
ADHD medicines must be started and monitored by an ADHD specialist. This includes:
medicine to help with ADHD symptoms, such as methylphenidate
melatonin for problems sleeping, when other methods for improving sleep have not worked
Children and teenagers may need to try more than one medicine to find out what works for them.
A GP may be able to take over prescribing ADHD medicines, but only if there is a “shared care agreement” between the GP and the ADHD specialist. To find out more, talk to your ADHD specialist or GP. Not everyone with ADHD needs to or wants to take medicine.
Talking therapies
Talking therapies such as cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT