ADHD in adults
ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) is a condition where the brain works differently to most people. If you have ADHD, you may have trouble with things like concentrating and sitting still. There are things you can do to help manage your symptoms.
Information:
ADHD in children and young people
There is separate information about ADHD in children and young people.
Symptoms of ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)
Symptoms of ADHD involve your ability to pay attention to things (being inattentive), having high energy levels (being hyperactive) and your ability to control your impulses (being impulsive).
You may show signs of being inattentive, such as:
being easily distracted or forgetful
finding it hard to organise your time
finding it hard to follow instructions or finish tasks
losing things often, like your wallet, mobile or keys
You may show signs of being hyperactive and impulsive, including:
having a lot of energy or feeling restless
being very talkative or interrupting conversations
making quick decisions without thinking about what might happen as a result
Most people with ADHD will have symptoms of both the inattentive and hyperactive-impulsive type. Some only show signs of one type.
These symptoms usually start before the age of 12.
ADHD is thought to be recognised less often in women than men. This may be because women with ADHD more commonly have inattentive symptoms and these can be harder to recognise than hyperactive symptoms.
Getting help with ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)
If your ADHD symptoms are affecting your studies, work or relationships, make an appointment with a GP to find out what support is available.
At your appointment, the GP will ask about your symptoms and how they affect your life. They may also want to consider other conditions that could be causing your symptoms, such as autism, Tourette's or anxiety, to help you get the right care.
After the appointment, the GP may decide to refer you for an assessment with a mental health professional specialising in ADHD.
If you have already been diagnosed with ADHD in childhood and need help for your symptoms, talk to your GP about getting a referral.
People with ADHD may often have other conditions too, such as depression, anxiety or addictions, or a learning difficulty such as dyslexia.
What happens at an ADHD assessment
Your appointment will be with an ADHD specialist such as a