Diagnosis
Dyslexia
The earlier a child with dyslexia is diagnosed, the more effective educational interventions are likely to be.
But identifying dyslexia in young children can be difficult for both parents and teachers because the signs and symptoms are not always obvious.
If you're worried about your child
If you're concerned about your child's progress with reading and writing, first talk to their teacher. You may also want to meet with other staff in the school.
If there's an ongoing concern, take your child to see a GP. It may be that your child has health problems that are affecting their ability to read or write.
For example, they may have:
vision problems, such as short-sightedness or a squint
hearing problems as the result of a condition such as glue ear
other conditions, such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
If your child does not have any obvious underlying health problems to explain their learning difficulties, it may be that they're not responding very well to the teaching method and a different approach may be needed.
Dyslexia assessments
If there are still concerns about your child's progress after they have received additional teaching and support, it may be a good idea to have a dyslexia diagnostic assessment.
This can be carried out by an educational psychologist or an appropriately qualified specialist dyslexia teacher.
They'll be able to support you, your child and your child's teachers by helping to improve the understanding of your child's learning difficulties and suggesting interventions that may help them.
Find out more about diagnostic assessments from the British Dyslexia Association.
Requesting an assessment
There are various ways to request an assessment for your child, although it can sometimes be a time consuming and frustrating process.
The first step is to meet your child's teacher and their school's special educational needs co-ordinator (SENCO) to discuss your concerns and any interventions that have been tried already.
If your child continues to have difficulties despite interventions, you can ask for them to be referred for assessment by a local authority educational psychologist or another specialist in dyslexia.
Or you can approach an independent educational psychologist or another suitably qualified professional directly. 
You can find a directory of chartered psychologists on the British Psychological Society's website.
You can also contact a national or local dyslexia association for help