What is autism?
Autistic people may act in a different way to other people
Autistic people may:
find it hard to communicate and interact with other people
find it hard to understand how other people think or feel
find things like bright lights or loud noises overwhelming, stressful or uncomfortable
get anxious or upset about unfamiliar situations and social events
take longer to understand information
do or think the same things over and over
Information:
If you think you or your child may be autistic, get advice about the signs of autism.
Video: We are autistic
This video shows how autism can affect everyday life and how you can help support and understand autistic people.


Autism is not an illness
Being autistic does not mean you have an illness or disease. It means your brain works in a different way from other people.
It's something you're born with. Signs of autism might be noticed when you're very young, or not until you're older.
If you're autistic, you're autistic your whole life.
Autism is not a medical condition with treatments or a "cure". But some people need support to help them with certain things.
Autistic people can live a full life
Being autistic does not have to stop you having a good life.
Like everyone, autistic people have things they're good at as well as things they struggle with.
Being autistic does not mean you can never make friends, have relationships or get a job. But you might need extra help with these things.
Autism is different for everyone
Autism is a spectrum. This means everybody with autism is different.
Some autistic people need little or no support. Others may need help from a parent or carer every day.
Some people use other names for autism
There are other names for autism used by some people, such as:
autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is the medical name for autism
Asperger's (or Asperger syndrome) is used by some people to describe autistic people with average or above average intelligence

More about Asperger's
People with Asperger's do not have the same learning disabilities that many people with autism have, but they might have a specific learning difficulty.
Some people call this "high-functioning" autism.
Doctors do not diagnose people with Asperger's anymore because it's now thought of as part of autism spectrum disorder.