Management
Dyslexia
While dyslexia is a lifelong problem, there's a range of specialist educational interventions that can help children with their reading and writing.
These interventions are generally most effective if they're started at a young age.
The type and extent of intervention needed will depend on the severity of your child's difficulties. 
A specific action plan for your child may be drawn up and implemented by their school.
Most mainstream schools should be able to offer suitable interventions for your child, although a small number of children may benefit from attending a specialist school.
Educational interventions
A number of educational interventions and programmes are available for children with dyslexia.
These can range from regular teaching in small groups with a learning support assistant who delivers work set by teaching staff, to 1-to-1 lessons with a specialist teacher.
Interventions may focus on phonological skills, which is the ability to identify and process word sounds. These interventions are often referred to as phonics.
Phonics interventions can involve teaching a child to:
recognise and identify sounds in spoken words (for example, helping them recognise that even short words such as "hat" are actually made up of 3 sounds: "h", "a" and "t")
combine letters to create words, and over time, use the words to create more complex sentences
monitor their own understanding while they read (for example, by encouraging them to ask questions if they notice gaps in their understanding)
These interventions should ideally be delivered in a highly structured way with development in small steps and should involve regularly practising what's been learnt.
It's recommended that your child is taught in a multisensory way, where they use several senses at the same time.
An example of multisensory teaching is where a child is taught to see the letter "a", say its name and sound and write it in the air, all at the same time.
How you can help your child
As a parent, you might be unsure about the best way to help your child.
Read to your child
This will improve their vocabulary and listening skills, and will also encourage their interest in books.
Share reading
Both read some of the book and then discuss what's happening, or what might happen.
Overlearning
You may get bored of reading your child's favourite book over and over, but repetition will reinforce their understanding