 and means they'll become familiar with the text.
Silent reading
Children also need the chance to read alone to encourage their independence and fluency.
Make reading fun
Reading should be a pleasure, not a chore. Use books about subjects your child is interested in, and make sure that reading takes place in a relaxed and comfortable environment.
Parents also play a significant role in improving their child's confidence, so it's important to encourage and support your child as they learn.
Technology for children
Many children with dyslexia feel more comfortable working with a computer than an exercise book.
This may be because a computer uses a visual environment that better suits their method of learning and working.
Word processing programmes can also be useful because they have a spellchecker and an autocorrect facility that can highlight mistakes in your child's writing.
Most web browsers and word processing software also have text-to-speech functions, where the computer reads the text as it appears on the screen.
Speech recognition software can also be used to translate what a person is saying into written text.
This software can be useful for children with dyslexia because their verbal skills are often better than their writing.
There are also many educational interactive software applications that may provide your child with a more engaging way of learning a subject, rather than simply reading from a textbook.
Adults
Much of the advice and techniques used to help children with dyslexia are also relevant for adults.
Making use of technology, such as word processors and electronic organisers, can help with your writing and organising daily activities.
Using a multisensory approach to learning can be helpful. For example, you could use a digital recorder to record a lecture and then listen to it as you read your notes.
It can also be useful to break large tasks and activities down into smaller steps.
If you need to draw up a plan or make notes about a certain topic, you may find it useful to create a mind map, rather than writing a list.
Mind maps are diagrams that use images and keywords to create a visual representation of a subject or plan.
Adjustments at work
If you're in work, let your employer know that you have dyslexia, as they're required by law to make reasonable adjustments to the workplace to assist you.
Examples of reasonable adjustments may include:
providing you with assistance technology, such as digital record