How to get an autism assessment
1. Talk to someone for advice
If you think you or your child have signs of autism, the next step is to talk to someone about it.
You could speak to:
a GP
a health visitor (for children under 5)
any other health professional you or your child see, such as another doctor or therapist
special educational needs co-ordinator (SENCO) staff at your child's school
Ask them about referring you or your child for an autism assessment.
An assessment is done by autism specialists. It's the only way to find out if you or your child are autistic.
Tips for when you speak to someone
Do
	 write a list of the signs of autism you think you or your child have and bring it with you
	 ask people who know you or your child well (like friends, family or teachers) if they have noticed any possible signs you could put on your list
	 bring a pen and paper so you can take notes
	 bring your child or someone who knows you well with you, if you think it might help (you do not have to)
Don’t
	 try not to talk too much about other things – autism should be the main thing you talk about
2. Have an autism assessment
An autism assessment is where a team of autism specialists check if you or your child are autistic.
An assessment team may:
ask about any problems you or your child are having
watch how you or your child interact with other people
speak to people who know you or your child well, such as family, friends, your GP or your child's teachers
At the end of the assessment, you'll be given a report saying if you or your child are autistic.
Find out what happens during an autism assessment
How a diagnosis can help
Parents and children
For parents and children, a diagnosis can help you:
understand your child's needs and how you can help your child
get advice about support for your child at school
get support for parents and carers of autistic people, such as financial benefits
understand that your child is not just being "naughty" or "difficult"
Adults
For adults, a diagnosis can help you:
understand why you might find some things harder than other people
explain to others why you see and feel the world in a different way
get support at college, university or work
get some financial benefits
If you find it hard to get an assessment
It's not always easy to get an autism assessment. Waiting times can also be very long.
If you're finding it hard to get an assessment, you could ask to speak to someone else, like another GP – this is called getting a second opinion.
It may also help to speak to other people who have been in a similar situation.